---
title: Full Mock 08.11.2023
description: Multi Level Listening Full Mock
layout: ../../layouts/BlogLayout.astro
pubDate: 2023-11-06T19:00:00.000Z
---

## LISTENING TEST

## Part 1

You will hear some sentences. Choose the best reply to each sentence.

1. A. No, but you can upgrade.
   B. A bank account number.
   C. The last week of every month.
2. A. Why don’t I drive?
   B. Take the highway.
   C. Slow down.
3. A. By using better materials.
   B. I can prove him wrong.
   C. Production costs.
4. A. I think it’s April 24.
   B. Please reserve a room.
   C. Mary is responsible for that.
5. A. The recent documentary.
   B. Yes, right here.
   C. I can’t read them.
6. A. Yes, they are for sale.
   B. Please put them in the closet.
   C. He came in first place.
7. A. I think at least five.
   B. He stayed overnight.
   C. At the beginning of March.

## Part 2

For each question, write the correct answer in the gap. Write one or two words or a
number or a date or a time.

You will hear a tour guide giving information about an old British house.

## Stonebridge House

The house was built in the 8 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
The Reynold family lived in the house until 9 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
The servants had rooms in the 10 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
The art collection is in the 11 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
George Reynold was a 12 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_.
George’s brother died in a 13 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ accident.

## Part 3

You will hear five short extracts in which people talk about deciding to take up new
interests. For questions 14 - 18, choose from the list (A-H) the reason each speaker gives
for deciding to take up their new interest. Use the letters only once. There are three extra
letters which you do not need to use.

A. to help other people
B. to make some money
C. to pass the time
D.to meet new people
E. to try to win a prize
F. to overcome a fear
G.to get fit
H.to make a change from their work

14.Speaker 1 \_\_\_\_
15.Speaker 2 \_\_\_\_
16.Speaker 3 \_\_\_\_
17.Speaker 4 \_\_\_\_
18.Speaker 5 \_\_\_\_

Label the map below. Write the correct letter, A-H, next to Questions 19- 23

19.tourist information \_\_\_
20.carpark \_\_\_
21.museum \_\_\_
22.picnic area \_\_\_
23.gift shop \_\_\_

You will hear three different extracts. For questions 24- 29 , choose the answer (A, В or C)
which fits best according to what you hear. There are two questions for each extract.


Extract One
You hear a part of a news radio programme
24.What are the people discussing?
A. a fire
B. floods
C. an earthquake
25.What is the purpose of the discussion?
A. to prevents listeners from going to the place
B. to get donations for the people affected by the situation
C. to provide factual information about the current state of emergency
Extract Two
You hear two people sharing their experience of a meeting.
26.Both speakers agree that
A. the leaving colleague cause lower profits for the company.
B. their colleague’s decision to leave came as a surprise
C. working without the leaving colleague is going to be less enjoyable

27\. What is the speakers’ attitude towards their work?
A. It lacks variety.
B. It is too physically taxing.
C. It can cause emotional strain.


Extract Three
You hear a conversation between an actress and a photographer
28.What is the aim of the man?
A. to apologise
B. to convince
C. to clarify
29.What is the actresses attitude to the conversation?
A. embarrassment
B. surprise
C. impatience

Questions 30- 35. Complete the notes below using NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS AND/OR
A NUMBER.

### The history of dentistry

Early history
The earliest reference to problems with teeth was in 30 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ The ancient
Sumerians called problems with teeth ‘tooth 31 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_
There is 32 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ to show that the Chinese used dental treatments.
Remedies and treatment
An old text from 33 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ reveals medical practices from 1700 to 1500 BC.
The text refers to the use of 34 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ and 35 \_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_ to relieve
toothache.
