---
title: Full Mock 04.11.2023
---

# **Part 1**

***Read the text. Fill in each gap with ONE word. You must use a word which is somewhere in the rest of the text.***

**Scotland Yard**

Scotland Yard is the headquarters of the Metropolitan Police in London. To most people, its name immediately brings to mind the picture of a detective — cool, efficient' ready to track down any criminal, or a helmeted (1) constable — that familiar figure of the London scene and trusty helper of every traveler from overseas. Scotland Yard is situated on the Thames Embankment close to the Houses of Parliament and the familiar clock tower of Big den, and its jurisdiction extends over 740 square miles with the exception of the ancient City of (2) which possesses its own separate police force One of the most successful developments in Scotland Yard's crime detection and emergency service has been the "999 system". On receipt of a call the 999 Room operator ascertains by electronic device the position of the nearest available police

car, which is contacted by radio.

Almost instantly a message is also sent by teleprinter to the police station concerned 50 that within seconds of a (3) for assistance being receive a police (4 ) is on its way to the scene. An old-established section of the (5) police is the Mounted Branch, with its strength of about 200 horses stabled at strategic points. These (6) are particularly suited to ceremonial occasions, for they are accustomed to military bands An interesting branch of Scotland Yard is the Horses of Police Dogs first used as an experiment in 1939.

# PART 2

***Read the texts 7-14 and the statements A-J. Decide which text matches with the situation described in the statements.***

***Each statement tan be used ONCE only. There are TWO extra statements which you do not need to use.***

Mark your answers on the answer sheet.

A) You must pay for the six-week course before you do the one-day class.

B) Customers can get special prices on some goods.

C) Sonia has written the e-mail to find out whether Bill wants a theatre ticket

D) David is half an hour away from where Jack lives.

E) Julia wants John's advice about a venue for a family celebration.

F) The weather will make her miss tonight's show.

G) Customers can only get reduced prices on goods with labels.

H) Andre will sell his sofa as long as it is taken away.

l) The six-week course is cheaper if you do the one-day class.

J) Joe is reminding Matt to put on his running kit before he leaves home.

7\. Special one-day dramma

class this Saturday.

Price-£50 per person,

Anyone who attends will

be able to book our

New six-week course at

A discount.

**8. Matt**

Sunday’s race starts at 10.00 We can pick up our Numbers at registration one hour before.There are No charging facilities so we must arrive ready to run.

9\. John

I’ve seen an advert for a new

French restaurant in the town

center. Have you eaten there?

Would it be suitable for Mum’s

Birthday on Saturday?

Julle

10\.

10\. COMFORTABLE SOFA

£20

too large for my new apartment

Buyer must collect.

Call Andre: 293354

11\.

11\. Olympia Sportswear

Further discounts

available on certain

sale items.

Check label for details.

12\. Jack,

My car breakdown on the motorway.

So I’ll be late picking

you up, I’m on the way

again now-£70

you at your house in 30

minutes.

David

13\.

13\. New Message

To:Bill

From:Sonis

Hi

I have to lot the

Theatre know how many

Tickets are needed.Have you

decided yet weather to come

with us or not?

Hope so!

14\. New message

To:Felipe

From:Anastasia

Won’t be able to get To tonight’s show\.The roads

Are still icy and they’re

Forecasting snow.

Why not take your sister instead?

# Part 3

Read the text and choose the correct heading for each paragraph from the list of heading

below.

There are more headings than paragraphs, so you will not use all of them. You cannot use any

heading more than once.

List of headings

I. Undercover support

II. Mercenary soldiers from Europe

Ill. Devoted to the American cause

IV. Enlightenment ideas

V. George Washington's heritage

VI. A valuable support and new expectations

VII. Impossible to remain neutral

VIII. French withdrawal from North America

15.Paragraph A

16.Paragraph B

17.Paragraph C

18.Paragraph D

19.Paragraph E

20.Paragraph F

None-Colonists-in-the-America-Revolution

A.From the point of view of some Europeans, the American Revolution pitted the ideals of the

Enlightenment, republicanism, and democracy against Europe's established orders as exemplified

by Britain, Some countries found that watching wasn't enough—they joined the fight.

B. One of these countries was France.Without France, a very important ally of America in the

Revolutionarv War,the Americans might not have defeated the British armv. The French

supported the Americans for a number of reasons.A weekened England could only heighten

Freance’s status and influence-both in Western Europe and around the world

as various countries competed to establish colonies.Some French might have been seeking

payback. Only twelve years before the American Revolution,France was at war with Britain in

the Seven Years’ War, and they lost.This resulted in France being forced to give North American

territories to Britain.

C.Five months after the Declaration of Indepedndence was signed, Benjamin Franklin traveled to

Paris.He hoped to explain the revolutionary cause to the French and enlist their support. Franklin

was already popular in France for his writings and scientific discoveries.and he was able to

secure French support. At first, France supported the Americans only in secret.

Gunpowder,ammunition,weapons,and money were smuggled into the country,hidden in

commercial ships.Military strategists crossed the Atlantic to advice Continental Army military

commanders. D.In February 1778,France officially recognized the United State (following the Battle of

Saratoga,in which the Continental Army decisively defeated the British army and gave a

resurgence of hope to the Americans’ fight for independence), and the countries signed an

alliance.French soliders fought alongside Americans; French and British fleets clashed from

Rhode Island down to Georgia.In addition to manpower, France contributed money and

weapons. For helping the American cause, France spent the equivalent of what would be about

13 billion dollars in the U.S today.

E.Spain also supported the Americans. First, like France,the Spanish contribution consisted of

money and weapons.But in 1779,Spain joined France with military support.Also like France,the

Spanish navy played an important role in combating the formidable British fleet.Land and sea

battles were sometimes fought far from the North American continent-in the Mediterranean and

West Africa. But French,Spanish,American, and British armies were not the only armies fighting

in the American Revolution.A quarter of all soldiers under the British flag were actually from the

area known as Germany today-30,000 hired men in all. These soldiers were known as Hesseians,

because many of them were from the independent principality of Hesse-Cassel.

F. Native Americans also fought in the American Revolution. Most considered the United State

to be a treat to their territory,so they fought on the British side.In total, approximately 13,000

Native Americans fought for the British.But other Native Americans fought against them. The

Revolution was, for some Native Americans, a controversial and dividive matter. For instance,

the lroquois Confederacy, also known as the Six Nations,was a powerful organization of

tribes that tried to stay neutral. But pressed to choose a side, the Confederacy could reach no

agreement; it split up, with two tribes pledging their allegiance to the Americans, and four to the British.

# Part 4

Read the following text for questions 21-25

THE POTENTIAL TO SNIFF OUT DISEASE

The fact diseases have o smell comes as no surprise - but finding someone or something that can

detect them at an early stage could hold huge potential for medicine. Breath, bodily odours and

urine are all amazingly revealing about general health. Even the humble cold can give off

an odour, thanks to the thick bacteria-ridden mucus that ends up in the back of the throat, The

signs are not apparent to everyone - but some super-smellers are very sensitive to the odours. Joy

Milne, for example, noticed her husband's smell had changed shortly before he was diagnosed

with Parkinson's disease. Humans can detect nearly 10,000 different smells. Formed by

chemicals in the air, they are absorbed by little hairs.made of extremely sensitive nerve fibres,

hanging from the nose's olfactory receptors, And the human sense of smell is 10,000 times more

sensitive than the sense of taste. gut dogs, as the old joke might have had it, smell even better.

Their ability to detect four times as many odours as humans makes them a potential early

warning system for a range of diseases. Research suggesting dogs' could sniff out cancers, for

example, was first published about 10 years ago. And there have been many tales of dogs

repeatedly sniffing an area of their owner's body, only for it to turn out to be hiding a tumour,

What they are smelling are the "volatile molecules" given off by cells when they become

cancerous. Some studies suggest dogs can be 93% accurate. Others suggest they can detect very

small tumours before clinical tests can. And yet more studies have produced mixed results.

Does cancer smell? At Milton Keynes University Hospitals a small team has recently begun to

collect human urine samples to test dogs' ability to detect the smell of prostate cancer. The

patients had symptoms such as difficulty urinating or a change in flows which could turn out to

be prostate, bladder or liver cancer. Rowena Fletcher, head of research and development at the

hospital, says the role of the dogs - which have been trained by Medical Detection Dogs - is to pick out samples that smell of cancer, Further down

the line, a clinical test will show if the dogs' diagnosis is correct, She says the potential for using

dogs in this way is far-reaching - even if it is not practical to have a dog in every surgery.

:We hope one day that there could be an electronic machine on every GP's desk which could test

a urine sample for diseases by smelling it," she says. "But first we need to pick the pattern of

what the dogs are smelling”. And that's the key. Dogs can't tell us what their noses are detecting,

but scientists believe that different cancers could produce different smells, although some might

also be very similar.

Electronic noses

Lab tests to understand what these highly-trained dogs are smelling could then inform the

development of “electronic noses”to detect the same molecules.These might then give rise to

better diagnostic tests in the future.The potential for using smell to test for a wide range of

diseases is huge, Ms Fletcher says. Bacteria, cancers and chronic diseases could all have their

own odour - which may be imperceptible to only the most sensitive humans. but obvious to dogs.

It may be possible in the future to use disease odours as the basis for a national screening

programme or to test everybody at risk of a certain cancer in a particular age group.

However, there are fewer than 20 dogs in the UK trained to detect cancer at present. Training

more will take more funding and time.On the positive side, all dogs are eligible to be trained

provided they are keen on searching and hunting. Whatever their breed or size, it's our four

legged friend's astounding sense of smell which could unlock a whole new way of detecting

human diseases.

Do the following statements agree with the information in the reading text?

In boxes 21-25 on your answer sheet.

21.You can have a specific smell even due to simple cold.

A) True B) False C)Not Given

22.Human sense of taste is 10,000 less sensitive than human sense of smell.

A) True B) False C) Not Given

23.Dogs and cats can sniff out different diseases.

A) True B) False C} Not Given

24\. Doctors believe that different cancers might have the same specific smell.

A) True B) False C) Not Given

25.There are more than 20 dogs in the UK trained to detect cancer.

A) True B) False C) Not Given

Questions 26-29

Choose the correct letter, A, B, C or D.

Write the correct letter in boxes 27-30 on your answer sheet.

26.All the studies suggest that dogs:

A. Can be 93% accurate

B. Can detect very small tumours

C. Can't detect tumours at all

D. Different studies have shown different results

27\. What scientists give dogs to detect cancer?

A. Urine samples

B. Bacteria

C. Different odours

D. Nothing

28\. What's an electronic nose?

A. A specific tool for dogs

B. A gadget to diagnose diseases

C. A recovery tool for ill patients

D. An artificial nose

29.The main objective of this passage is to:

A. Bring awareness to the cancer problem

B. Show us how good dogs are at detecting cancer

C. Show us how important it can be to be able to diagnose a disease by an odour

D.Show us how bad dogs are at detecting cancer

# Part 5

Read the following text for questions 30-35.

Elephants' Early Warning System

A new study shows that elephants may communicate with other herds through seismic vibrations.

Few sights in nature are as awesome as a six-ton elephant guarding her baby from a hungry predator. Rather than retreat, the threatened mother is likely to launch a mock charge - a terrifying display of ground stomping, ear flapping and frantic screaming designed to frighten off lions and hyenas.

But elephant researchers have discovered that there is more to a mock charge than meets the eye. According to a new study in the Journal of the Acoustical Society of America (JASA), foot stomping and low-frequency rumbling also generate seismic waves in the ground that can travel nearly 20 miles along the surface of the earth. More astonishing is the discovery that elephants may be able to sense these vibrations and interpret them as warning signals of a distant danger.

'Elephants may be able to detect stress from a herd many miles away,' says Caitlin O'Connell-Rodwell, an affiliate of the Stanford Centre for Conservation Biology. 'They may be communicating at much farther distances than we thought,' adds O'Connell-Rodwell, author of the JASA study.

In the early '90S, O'Connell-Rodwell began to suspect there was more to long-distance elephant communication than airborne rumblings alone. 'I started working with elephants in Etosha National Park in 1992,' she re- calls. 'I was observing them at a drinking hole when I noticed this strange set of behaviours. They would lean forward, pickup one leg and freeze - or begin stomping their feet for no apparent reason.' She theorized that the elephants were responding to vibrations in the ground from approaching herds. 'When I returned to the University of California at Davis, I teamed up with my Ph.D. adviser, Lynette Hart, and geophysicist Byron Aranson to find out if there really are seismic communications among elephants,' she says.

To test the theory that elephants transmit and receive underground messages, O'Connell-Rodwell and her colleagues conducted several experiments with elephants in Africa, India and at a captive elephant facility in Texas; USA. 'We went to Etosha National Park in Namibia and recorded three acoustic calls commonly made by wild African elephants,' she says. One is a warning call, another is a greeting and the third is the elephant equivalent of 'Let's go!'

The researchers wanted- to find out if elephants would respond to recordings played through the ground, so they installed seismic transmitters at a tourist facility in Zimbabwe where eight trained, young elephants were housed. The idea was to convert audible 'Greetings!', 'Warning!' and 'Let's go!' calls into underground seismic waves that an elephant could feel but not hear directly through the air. 'We used a mix of elephant calls, synthesized low-frequency tones, rock music and silence for comparison,' says O'Connell-Rodwell. 'When the Warning calls were played, one female got so agitated that she bent down and bit the ground,' she notes. 'That's very unusual behaviour for an elephant, but it has been observed in the wild un- der conditions of extreme agitation.' The young female had the same agitated response each time the experiment was repeated.

Researchers also played recorded calls to seven captive males. The bulls reacted too, but their response was much more subtle,' notes O'Connell-Rodwell. We think they're sensing these underground vibrations through their feet,' she adds. 'Seismic waves could travel from their toe- nails to the ear via bone conduction.'

For questions 30-33, fill in the missing information in the numbered spaces. Write no more than ONE WORD and/or A NUMBER for each question.

According to newly published findings, by stomping their feet, elephants tend to send a (30) message to other elephants in the distance.

O'Connell-Rodwell wanted to study elephants further because he witnessed unusual (31) of these giant animals. When warning calls were played in the experiment, an elephant bit the ground, which case was (32) before, but when they had agitated extremely.

The scientists hypothesized that elephants use their (33) detect the vibrations.

For questions 34-35, choose the correct answer A, B, C, or D. Mark your answers on the answer sheet.

34\. According to newly published findings

A) a mother elephant uses a mock charge to protect her young,

B) a mother elephant is unable to defend her young from lions.

C) an elephant's mock charge is not simply a loud noise.

D) an elephant can create a louder noise by stomping its foot than with its call.

35\. The elephants Caitlin saw in 1992 were acting strangely because

A) they were not drinking from the waterhole.

B) they were moving their feet constantly.

C) they made acoustic calls to another heard.

D) occasionally, they would raise a leg and stay very still.

Answers

1.POLICE

2.LONDON

3.CALL

4.CAR

5.METROPOLITAN

6.HORSES

7.I

8.J

9.E

10.H

11.B

12.D

13.C

14.F

15\. IV

16\. VIII

17\. I

18\. VI

19 II

20\. VII

21A

22.A

23.C

24.B

25.B

26.D

27.A

28.B

29.C

30.WARNING

31.BEHAVIOUR

32.OBSERVED

33.FEET

34.C

35.D
